README.md, before:

# Banging Cuts
Blender VSE Addon to cut up audio and video clips based on peaks in the audio track.

## Why?
I got bored of doing this kind of editing manually.

## How to install
[Download the zip](https://github.com/OllyFunkster/bangingcuts/archive/refs/heads/main.zip) of this repo, save it wherever you like. Open Blender preferences and navigate to Addons, then choose Install and pick the zip file. Tick the box at the left of the list to enable the addon, and you should see a Banging Cuts menu appear on the right hand side of the Sequencer area's menu bar.

## How to use it:
Select your strips - generally, one video strip and one audio strip that are the same length and are in sync with each other. Optionally, multiple strips - the audio strip with the highest channel number in the sequencer will be used as the reference strip.

Click on Banging Cuts on the top right of the sequencer panel, and choose Make Cuts. A dialog appears and you can choose how many frames you want before and after the peak, and the audio level to use as the threshold. Make some appropriate choices.

Click OK, and after a short* pause your clip will be reduced to however many smaller clips each containing one peak.

*depends on variable, obviously. It's not exactly efficient, and if you have a long clip it'll take a while - it shows progress via the mouse cursor.

## Limitations:
- Goodness knows what happens if the video strip has modifier strips on it - use the addon before you start getting into crossfades etc.
- It can cope with audio and video clips whose sources have different lengths etc. (e.g. audio from a separate recorder that you have synced) but their strips need to be no shorter than the reference strip - if the audio has peaks after the end of the video, it'll break.
- Since audio strips can only be shuffled around at 1-frame resolution, the peaks won't be perfectly aligned with a frame, so if you're going for a super tight clip to get a buzz of events, the period will be a bit wonky. If this is a problem you can maybe resample to a higher framerate.

Commit message:

Fixed issues when reference strip contained peaks beyond the end of the target strips. Now it just keeps the bits that overlap.

README.md, after:

# Banging Cuts
Blender VSE Addon to cut up audio and video clips based on peaks in the audio track.

## Why?
I got bored of doing this kind of editing manually.

## How to install
[Download the zip](https://github.com/OllyFunkster/bangingcuts/archive/refs/heads/main.zip) of this repo, save it wherever you like. Open Blender preferences and navigate to Addons, then choose Install and pick the zip file. Tick the box at the left of the list to enable the addon, and you should see a Banging Cuts menu appear on the right hand side of the Sequencer area's menu bar.

## How to use it:
Select your strips - generally, one video strip and one audio strip that are the same length and are in sync with each other. Optionally, multiple strips - the audio strip with the highest channel number in the sequencer will be used as the reference strip.

Click on Banging Cuts on the top right of the sequencer panel, and choose Make Cuts. A dialog appears and you can choose how many frames you want before and after the peak, and the audio level to use as the threshold. Make some appropriate choices.

Click OK, and after a short* pause your clip will be reduced to however many smaller clips each containing one peak.

If your other strips were shorter than your reference strip, you will just get the bits of those strips that overlapped peaks in the reference.

*depends on variable, obviously. It's not exactly efficient, and if you have a long clip it'll take a while - it shows progress via the mouse cursor.

## Limitations:
- Goodness knows what happens if the video strip has modifier strips on it - use the addon before you start getting into crossfades etc.
- Since audio strips can only be shuffled around at 1-frame resolution, the peaks won't be perfectly aligned with a frame, so if you're going for a super tight clip to get a buzz of events, the period will be a bit wonky. If this is a problem you can maybe resample to a higher framerate.
